
On Nsim-based multiphysics vs. COMSOL(TM) Multiphysics:

(NOTE: to be included in nsim paper!)

* other frameworks for multiphysics applications available

* Conceptually, the scope of these packages is different.


Nsim's fundamental philosophy:

 (a) Complete formalization of classical field theory
     in a framework readable by both humans and computers.

 (b) Providing a system that allows the direct compilation
     of such abstract specifications to working simulations.
 
 (c) Embeddable framework: free software library.

 (d) targeted at: modeling in current research (i.e. highly
     active areas where multiple different contending sets
     of formulas may be around to describe different limiting
     cases of a complex system).

Comsol Multiphysics' fundamental philosophy:

 Providing a marketable product that does well and is easy
 to use for the most widespread day-to-day field theory
 models in engineering, and can to a limited degree be
 coerced into also simulating some more generic systems
 where equations are defined by the user:

 Not a tool designed for active model-building research,
 but for application of established models!

 Under these conditions, fully user-defined subsystems are
 necessarily seen as a rare exception that nevertheless has
 to be supported to some degree, as not being able to do some
 particular unusual detail in a multiphysics application may
 still seriously hinder applicability in the field. Hence,
 support for the generic case uses a number of ad-hoc
 approaches. XXX Example: no generic support for higher-rank
 multi-group tensor dynamical variables.
 (Elastomechanics tensors are represented as triplets of vectors;
 all vectors are 3d.)

 In Nsim's philsophy, the foundation is a stringent formalization of
 classical field theory. XXX Directed at areas of active research.
 Support for existing models "grows into" nsim as they are needed.

 Uniform formalism that is strong enough to support a whole range of
 field theory applications without having to introduce special ad-hoc
 concepts as the defining idea.

